---
layout: post
categories: ["note"]
title: 'Notes: Cress2013-av'
date: '2018-12-27'
---

## References

**Citekey**: @Cress2013-av

Cress, U., Barron, B., Fischer, G., Halatchliyski, I., & Resnick, M. (2013). Mass collaboration - An emerging field for CSCL research. In CSCL Proceedings (Vol. 1, pp. 557–563). 

## Notes

*Summarize*: 

*Assess*: 

*Reflect*: 

## Highlights


The participants in such communities are not just a mass of learning individuals or passive consumers; they actively produce meaningful content and act as “prosumers” (O’Reilly, 2006; Tapscott & Williams, 2006). (p. 2)

the symposium on long-tail learning at the CSCL conference in 2009 (Brown & Adler, 2008; Collins, et al 2009) (p. 2)

In sum, the aim of the symposium is threefold: (1) to establish the concept of mass collaboration as a relevant topic of CSCL (2) to present and interconnect existing research on the subject, and (3) to give prototypical examples of learning communities and mass collaboration platforms (p. 2)

Whereas CSCL in its early times mainly dealt with synchronous small group or classroom-settings, currently, CSCL research faces a much broader range of real-life situations, where people take part in decentralized communities, act asynchronously and do not necessarily all come to a shared conception of a problem. (p. 2)

shared conception of a problem. In fact, complex knowledge phenomena involve long periods of time, large and changing numbers of people, and fuzzy-structured settings. (p. 3)

CSCL research is just starting to address this global level of human learning and creation of knowledge (Kafai & Peppler, 2011; Collins et al, 2009). (p. 3)

Artifacts as Mediators of Mass Collaboration (p. 3)

All the more so when the process is collaborative and fulfills the conditions that individuals act consciously following a common direction; that they take the perspective of the other participants into account; and that they contribute by building on the accomplishments of others. (p. 3)

The solution to the coordination problem resides in artifacts that support the collaborative process by mediating common understanding (Bruner, 1996). (p. 3)

Collaborative artifacts represent crystallized knowledge that is preserved from past interactive situations and that can be built on in future to produce phenomena like scientific understanding, social practices or social norms (Engeström & Sannino, 2010; Paavola, Lipponen & Hakkareinen, 2004). (p. 3)

An artifact is a means to an end (p. 3)

learning and knowledge creation in a collaborative setting are one continuous process of internalization and externalization (Nonaka & Takeuchi, 1995; Vygotsky, 1978). (p. 3)

The “learning” of a community and the learning of the participating individuals are intertwined and suggest a systemic understanding of mass collaboration (Cress & Kimmerle, 2008). (p. 3)

Mass Collaboration Environments (p. 3)

While Wikipedia has emerged as a self-organized community, a lot of mass collaboration platforms have been deliberately designed to support learning. (p. 3)

The third example of a mass collaboration environment in this symposium is Citizen Science (presentation by Brigid Barron). (p. 4)

the Co-Evolution Model of Individual Learning and Collaborative Knowledge Building (Cress & Kimmerle, 2008) serves as a systemic framework for describing and analyzing mass collaboration. (p. 4)

Presentation 1: Cultures of Participation — Fundamental Transformations of Learning, Working, and Collaborating (p. 4)

a world in which everyone would be able to actively participate following their own interests and to make their voices heard. (p. 4)

Presentation 2: The Co-Evolution Model as a Theoretical Framework for Describing Mass Collaboration (p. 4)

The model describes individuals as cognitive systems, who externalize their knowledge into an artifact. The community deals with the individuals’ contributions by interlinking, revising or even deleting them. (p. 4)

Aileen Oeberst will present a study of the development of the Wikipedia article about the nuclear power plant in Fukushima during the first nine days after the nuclear disaster on March 11, 2011. (p. 5)

Their activities and coordination were only mediated by Wikipedia’s norms, that valuable and thus accepted contribution should be verifiable and written from a neutral point of view. This norm effectively shaped individuals’ edits and enabled authors without much domain expertise to construct an article, which nuclear experts judged to be of high quality. (p. 5)

Iassen Halatchlyiski will present an approach to studying mass collaboration that can encompass large-scale and long-term characteristics: the macro level of the phenomenon (Halatchliyski, Moskaliuk, Kimmerle & Cress, 2010). His study deals with pivotal knowledge within Wikipedia. He asks (1) what pivotal knowledge in Wikipedia is, and (2) who its authors are. (p. 5)

he operationalizes “pivotal knowledge” as articles with a central position at the macro level and distinguishes two types of pivotal knowledge: knowledge that is central within a single domain or knowledge that relates two different domains and resides at the border between them. The presentation shows that social network analysis (SNA) is an appropriate methodological approach to go about the complex large-scale and long-term patterns of creation of pivotal knowledge. (p. 5)

Presentation 3: Large-Scale Collaboration and Cultures of Accountability (p. 5)

Presentation 4: Learning through Remixing Mitchel Resnick (p. 6)

Presentation 5: Long-tail learning and access to external resources Brigid Barron and Caitlin Martin from Stanford University will report findings from a study of a genre of cyber-enabled massively collaborative activity known as Citizen Science. Citizen Science projects capitalize on the interest and efforts of non-scientist collaborators who join forces to contribute data that helps address problems of concern. (p. 6)

We chose to study a Citizen Science project with a significant focus on education called Vital Signs. Vital Signs is a citizen science networked system located in the state of Maine, linked statewide to schools and accessible not only to teachers but to anyone who want to learn. (p. 6)

Collins, A., Fischer, G., Barron, B., Liu, C., & Spada, H. (2009). Long-Tail Learning: A Unique Opportunity for CSCL? In C. O'Malley, D. Suthers, P. Reimann, A. Dimitracopoulou (Eds.), Computer Supported Collaborative Learning Practices: CSCL2009 Conference Proceedings (Vol. II, 22-24). Rhodes, Greece: International Society of the Learning Sciences. (p. 7)


